README.md, before:

Casbin support for IntelliJ-based IDEs
========================================

Get it from plugin repository: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14809-casbin

Plugin for editing and testing Casbin models in IntelliJ-based IDEs.

Provides:
 * syntax highlighting
 * auto-completion for policy effect definitions and object attributes
 * quick fixes to add missing attributes to models
 * test casbin model using the casbin executor tool window
    * model and policy definitions are watched for changes to automatically update the Casbin Model and execution results

Editor
![Editor](assets/screenshots/editor_with_structure.PNG?raw=true)

Casbin Executor
![Casbin Executor](assets/screenshots/casbin_executor.PNG?raw=true)

### Development

The plugin is built using Gradle and uses [gradle-intellij-plugin](https://github.com/JetBrains/gradle-intellij-plugin)
to integrate with IntelliJ Platform.
 
To build a plugin run

```
$ ./gradlew buildPlugin
```

Plugin zip file will be created in `build/distributions`

To test plugin in IDE run `./gradlew runIde`

#### Grammar modifications

The plugin uses [Grammar-Kit](https://github.com/jetbrains/grammar-kit) to generate parser and lexer. Please install [Grammar-Kit plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6606-grammar-kit) and refer to the documentation if you want to modify grammar.

Casbin Model Parser & Lexer  
- To regenerate the parser for casbin models, open [Casbin.bnf](grammars/Casbin.bnf) and press <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+G</kbd>  
- To regenerate the lexer, open [CasbinLexer.flex](grammars/CasbinLexer.flex) and press <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+G</kbd>

Casbin CSV Parser & Lexer  
- To regenerate the parser, open [CasbinCSV.bnf](grammars/CasbinCSV.bnf) and press <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+G</kbd>  
- To regenerate the lexer, open [CasbinCSVLexer.flex](grammars/CasbinCSVLexer.flex) and press <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+G</kbd>

 
### Contribution

Plugin is written in [Kotlin](http://kotlinlang.org/).

### Third Party Libraries

Look at [ThirdPartyNotices.txt](ThirdPartyNotices.txt) for more information.

Commit message:

feat: use changelog for plugin, add githhub actions
The following changes were based of jetbrains template for intellij plugins.
1. Implement change log for the patched plugin
2. Add Github actions

README.md, after:

Casbin support for IntelliJ-based IDEs
========================================
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/jetbrains/plugin/v/14809.svg)](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14809)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/jetbrains/plugin/d/14809.svg)](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14809)

Get it from plugin repository: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14809-casbin

Plugin for editing and testing Casbin models in IntelliJ-based IDEs.

Provides:
 * syntax highlighting
 * auto-completion for policy effect definitions and object attributes
 * quick fixes to add missing attributes to models
 * test casbin model using the casbin executor tool window
    * model and policy definitions are watched for changes to automatically update the Casbin Model and execution results

Editor
![Editor](assets/screenshots/editor_with_structure.PNG?raw=true)

Casbin Executor
![Casbin Executor](assets/screenshots/casbin_executor.PNG?raw=true)

## Installation

- Using IDE built-in plugin system:
  
  <kbd>Preferences</kbd> > <kbd>Plugins</kbd> > <kbd>Marketplace</kbd> > <kbd>Search for "CASBIN"</kbd> >
  <kbd>Install Plugin</kbd>
  
- Manually:

  Download the [latest release](https://github.com/will7200/casbin/releases/latest) and install it manually using
  <kbd>Preferences</kbd> > <kbd>Plugins</kbd> > <kbd>⚙️</kbd> > <kbd>Install plugin from disk...</kbd>



### Development

The plugin is built using Gradle and uses [gradle-intellij-plugin](https://github.com/JetBrains/gradle-intellij-plugin)
to integrate with IntelliJ Platform.
 
To build a plugin run

```
$ ./gradlew buildPlugin
```

Plugin zip file will be created in `build/distributions`

To test plugin in IDE run `./gradlew runIde`

#### Grammar modifications

The plugin uses [Grammar-Kit](https://github.com/jetbrains/grammar-kit) to generate parser and lexer. Please install [Grammar-Kit plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6606-grammar-kit) and refer to the documentation if you want to modify grammar.

Casbin Model Parser & Lexer  
- To regenerate the parser for casbin models, open [Casbin.bnf](grammars/Casbin.bnf) and press <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+G</kbd>  
- To regenerate the lexer, open [CasbinLexer.flex](grammars/CasbinLexer.flex) and press <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+G</kbd>

Casbin CSV Parser & Lexer  
- To regenerate the parser, open [CasbinCSV.bnf](grammars/CasbinCSV.bnf) and press <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+G</kbd>  
- To regenerate the lexer, open [CasbinCSVLexer.flex](grammars/CasbinCSVLexer.flex) and press <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+G</kbd>

 
### Contribution

Plugin is written in [Kotlin](http://kotlinlang.org/).

### Third Party Libraries

Look at [ThirdPartyNotices.txt](ThirdPartyNotices.txt) for more information.
